# HER activity prediction for alloy nanoparticle
The training dataset, prediction dataset and code to reproduce the results of HER activity prediction. 

Note 1: Training procedure for both nanoparticle's stability and HER activity prediction was followed the instruction that described in detail in the paper.
   "The MLIP package: moment tensor potentials with MPI and active learning". DOI 10.1088/2632-2153/abc9fe.
   After training process for nanoparticle's stability prediction, trained MTP_stability can be used to predict energy for nanoparticle.
   After training process for HER activity prediction, trained MTP_HER can be used to predict energy for H*_nanoparticle and nanoparticle. 
   The procedure to predict energy was described in detail in the MLIP package.

Note 2: The generation of bulk crystal structure was performed based on the cluster approach to statistical mechanics (CASM) package.
   "CASM — A softwCASM — A software package for first-principles based study of multicomponent crystalline solidsare package for first-principles based study 
   of multicomponent crystalline solids". DOI 10.1016/j.commatsci.2022.111897

There are 3 directories: Alloy nanoparticle catalytic activity prediction, Alloy nanoparticle stability prediction and Command. 

1. The Command directory include the code to generate nanoparticle (NP) with diverve morphology and diameter, the code to generate training dataset. 
   - Gen_Solid_Solution_NP: generate the ordered solid solution nanoparticle with desired diameter from bulk structure.
   - Gen_Core_Shell_NP: generate the core-shell nanoparticle by keeping the same the number of composition and atoms in solid solution nanoparticle
   - Gen_Disordered_NP: generate the disordered nanoparticle.
   - Convert_cif_cfg: converting the cif to cfg for further prediction using MLIP package.
   - Convexhull_plot_NP: ploting convexhull based on the total energy prediction from MLIP package.
   - Gen_surface_train: generate surface structure to construct necessary training dataset for nanoparticle's stability prediction.
   - Gen_defective_surface_train: generate defective surface structure from surface structures generated by Gen_surface_train.py.
   - Gen_H_adsorption_events: binding Hydrogen on the all possible active sites on surface structure that generated from Gen_surface_train.py and Gen_defective_surface_train.py

2. The Alloy nanoparticle stability prediction directory include the dataset to reproduce the results of nanoparticle's stability prediction:

  - The validation data directory include the data to reproduce the parity plot for both force and energy.
     - Before DFT optimization: include .cif files of structures of both core shell and solid solution NP in validation dataset and INCAR file for VASP full optimization.  
     - After DFT optimization: include .cif files of full optimization structures.
     - Prediction results: include .cfg files with energy and force predicted from MLIP package of structures in Before DFT optimization directory.
       Trained stability potential (MTP_stability) include the trained potential that can be used directly to predict energy of unrelaxed NP.
     - Energy_Force_validation: CS_F and SS_F directories include the force for each NP in validation dataset.
       E_valid.csv lists the energy/ atom (eV/atom) predicted from MLIP package and DFT full optimization of each NP in validation dataset.
       F_valid.csv lists the force (eV/Angstrong)  predicted from MLIP package and DFT full optimization of each NP in validation dataset.
  
  - Hyperparameter optimization directory include the data to reproduce the hyperparameter optimization selection.
     - lev_max (potential compolexity): the .mtp is the potential used to predict energy and force of corresponding lev_max.
       The prediction results include the .cfg file (comprising energy and force predicted by MLIP package) and corresponding force (.csv file).
     - r cutoff (cutoff radius): the .mtp is the potential used to predict energy and force of corresponding r_cutoff.
       The prediction results include the .cfg file (comprising energy and force predicted by MLIP package) and corresponding force (.csv file).
     - weight_ratio: the .mtp is the potential used to predict energy and force of corresponding energy-to-force-weight.
       The prediction results include the .cfg file (comprising energy and force predicted by MLIP package) and corresponding force (.csv file).

  - Stable nanoparticle directory include the most stable nanoparticle found in the convex hulll of PtAu, PtNi and PtCo nanoparticle with diameter up to 4nm.

  - The prediction directory include the prediction data (test dataset) for nanoparticle stability prediction.
    The predictions were performed for PtNi, PtAu (FCC-FCC) and PtCo (FCC-HCP).
    The generation of training dataset and prediction dataset for the nanopaticle in same class is similar.
    The prediction results for nanoparticle's stability of PtAu, PtNi and PtCo with diameter size up to 4nm is found at: 
    https://figshare.com/articles/dataset/Prediction_results_for_nanoparticle_stability/28379579?file=52233182
      - PtNi: include Prediction dataset, Prediction results, Training dataset and Trained potential.
            - Prediction dataset: .cif file of nanoparticle that need to predict energy.
            - Prediction results: .cfg file of nanoparticle that predicted by MLIP package.
            - Training dataset: bulk and surface structure used to trained MLIP.
      - PtAu, PtCo: the directory structure is the same as PtNi.

3. Alloy nanoparticle catalytic activity prediction directory include the dataset to reproduce the results of HER activity prediction

    - Validation directory comprise the validation for various nanoparticle (PtNi, PtAu, PtCo) with different morphologies (coreshell, solid solution and disorder nanoparticle).
      - PtNi: include various nanoparticle for validation. The validation of each nanoparticle divide into 3 directories:
          - Trained MTP_HER: already trained MTP that can be used to predict energy of H*_nanoparticle and nanoparticle.
          - Validation dataset: unrelaxed .cif files of H adsorption events on surface of nanoparticle and corresponding relaxed .cif files.
            The optimization was performed using DFT method by VASP5.4.4 (the INCAR file for VASP also provided)
          - Validation results: .cfg files (structure coordination and energy) predicted from trained MTP_HER for structures in Validation dataset. 
      - PtAu, PtCo: the directory structure is the same as PtNi.

    - Prediction directory: include the HER prediction results  for all stable nanoparticle listed in Stable nanoparticle directory.
      - PtNi: include the HER prediction results for stable nanoparticle at 2,3 and 4 nm. 
        HER prediction for each nanoparticle was divide into 4 directories:
          - Training dataset: training dataset used as input for MTP training process.
          - Trained MTP_HER: already trained MTP that can be used to predict energy of H*_nanoparticle and nanoparticle.
          - Prediction dataset: .cif files of all possible H adsorption events on surface of nanoparticle.
          - Prediction results: .cfg files (structure coordination and energy) predicted from trained MTP_HER for structures in Prediction dataset. 
